>> Jen Kramer So as a web developer,
you'll be building
websites on the computer that's
sitting right there in front of you.
When your website is done,
you'll need to move it somewhere
where the world can actually see it.
World can't see a website on the computer
that's there in front of you.
And so the first thing that we're going
to discuss is the concept of client and
server, because it plays right
into these particular issues.
So, first of all the term, the client.
We in technology love to
take the same word and
have it mean several different things
that have nothing to do with each other.
You maybe thinking of a client
as your customer or someone for
whom you're building a website,
but in fact, in this situation,
the client is the computer that's
sitting there in front of you.
It's gonna be running a web browser.
You're probably familiar
with web browsers.
There are all kinds of them
that are out there and
they are software that run on the client
that are designed to display web pages.
If you are a PC person a pretty common
one is Edge or Internet Explorer.
If you are Mac person you're
probably more familiar with Safari.
But the ones that we like to use in web
development are Firefox and Chrome.
I'll talk more about them later.
There's many, many other choices for
browsers that are out there.
Some run on phones,
some run on tablets, but
that is what you need to
know at the moment, okay?
Client is the computer that sits in front
of you, it's running web browser software.
Now on the other end of things,
we have a server.
And the server is where your
public website is going to live.
Just like before, server is a word that
means two entirely different things.
One thing that it means
is the hardware server.
That's the actual physical
computer that is going to run
programs that are going
to make your website go.
The other side is the software server.
This is the actual software
that executes the commands to
send files on out so
that your website can be seen.
One of the commonly used packages
used as website software for
the server it's called Apache.
There are many other types
of software servers, but
Apache is one that you'll
very commonly encounter.
All right, so this is pretty much the way
that the Internet's gonna work for
where we are right now,
just starting to build web pages.
We have a computer, the one over here on
the left hand side that looks kind of like
maybe a Mac LE or SE, and it's a machine
that is running some kind of web browser.
It could be any of the web
browsers that are out there.
You're gonna open up that web browser and
you're gonna type in an address.
That address is gonna go over
the Internet to the server.
The server receives that request and
it's going to send that page
right on back to the client.
And that leads into a whole
another area to talk about,
which is how that
communication process happens.